
    
    
    	
    					
    
    
    VERNON'S CIVIL STATUTES
    
      
    
    
    TITLE 49. EDUCATION--PUBLIC
    
      
    
    
    CHAPTER 12. COUNTY UNIT SYSTEM
    
      
    
    
    Art. 2702. ELECTION.  Upon the petition, duly signed and verified by the tax rolls of the county, of five hundred (500) qualified voters of any county having a population of one hundred thousand (100,000) or over, or upon the petition duly signed and verified by the tax rolls of the county of one hundred (100) qualified voters of any county having a population of not less than three thousand nine hundred sixty (3,960) and not more than four thousand (4,000), and a county having a population of not less than eight thousand six hundred (8,600) and not more than nine thousand (9,000), according to the preceding Federal Census, the County Judge shall call an election in said county within ninety (90) days thereafter to determine whether or not such county shall adopt what is commonly known as the County Unit System of Education, provided for under this law;  such election to be governed by the laws governing the holding of a primary election in and for a county, in which said election is called.  Separate elections shall be held in each Commissioner's Precinct in the County, and it shall require a majority vote in each such Commissioner's Precinct before the consolidation may be ordered by the Commissioners' Court.  And the Commissioners' Court is hereby constituted the canvassing board for each of such precincts and the elections therein.  Said election shall be held on the same day and in the same manner as provided for the holding of primary elections in this State. The County Judge shall prepare a proper form of ballot to be used in such election, and furnish such explanations of the law as in his judgment may be necessary, and transmit the same to the presiding officer of each election precinct.  The results of said election shall be certified by the County Judge to the Secretary of State, and shall take effect as soon as the County Board of Education hereinafter provided for has been duly elected and qualified;  and this law shall take the place of any existing General or Special Law affecting said county which may be in conflict with the provisions hereof.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1923, p. 237;  Acts 1931, 42nd Leg., p. 835, ch. 348, Sec. 1;  Acts 1941, 47th Leg., p. 176, ch. 128, Sec. 1.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2702-A. COUNTY-WIDE EQUALIZATION DISTRICTS IN COUNTIES OF 24,000 TO 25,000 HAVING VALUATION OF $27,500,000.
    
    Section 1. TAXING POWER.  All counties in this state having a population of not more than twenty-five thousand (25,000), nor less than twenty-four thousand (24,000), according to the last preceding Federal Census, and containing a valuation of Twenty-seven Million Five Hundred Thousand ($27,500,000.00) Dollars or more, are hereby created into county-wide equalization school districts, and each such county shall have the county unit system of education to the extent specified in this Act and may exercise the taxing power conferred on school districts by Article 7, Section 3 of the Constitution to the extent hereinafter provided;  but such taxing power shall not be exercised until and unless authorized by a majority of the qualified property tax-paying voters residing therein at an election to be held for that purpose as hereinafter provided.
    
    Sec. 2. MANAGEMENT;  RATE OF EQUALIZATION TAX.  The general management, supervision, and control of the public schools and of the educational interests of such counties shall be vested in the County Board of School Trustees, except as otherwise provided by law, and said Board shall perform such duties as are or may be required of it by existing law and by the provisions of this Act and shall constitute the Board of Trustees for such county-wide equalization district.  Any such county-wide school equalization district may levy and collect annually on all taxable property in the county an equalization tax not to exceed Twenty-five (25) Cents on the One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars valuation of property situated in said county, and the money derived from said tax shall be known as an equalization fund for the support of the public schools of the county, which funds shall be distributed to the school districts of the county as provided herein.
    
    Sec. 3. ELECTION.  On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified taxpaying voters of any county, subject to the provisions of this Act, praying for the authority to levy and collect said tax, the County Judge shall immediately order an election to be held throughout the county, said election to be held not more than thirty (30) days, nor less than twenty (20), from the date of such order.  The County Judge shall give notice of such election by causing to be published a copy of the order of the election in some newspaper, published in the county once each week for three (3) consecutive weeks prior to the date of such election, the date of the first publication to be not less than twenty (20) days prior to the date fixed by the election.  Only legally qualified property taxpaying voters who own property in the county and who have duly rendered the same for taxation shall be allowed to vote in said election.  The form of ballot shall be substantially as follows:
    
    "For the county-wide equalization tax."
    
    "Against the county-wide equalization tax."
    
    The manner of holding said election shall be governed by the General Laws of the State of Texas regulating elections and shall be held at the regular polling places within the county with duly appointed election officers holding said election.  The officers holding the election shall make returns thereof to the County Judge within ten (10) days after the same was held.
    
    The Commissioners Court shall at its next regular meeting canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of the votes cast shall favor such tax, the Court shall declare the result and certify the same to the County Board of School Trustees and to the County Tax Assessor and Collector, and said Board of County School Trustees shall thereupon be authorized to levy said tax and the County Tax Assessor and Collector shall be authorized to assess and collect same.  No election to revoke said tax shall be ordered until the expiration of five years (5) from the date of the election at which said tax was adopted.
    
    Sec. 4. ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION;  REPORTS.  In counties voting such equalization tax the County Tax Assessor shall assess all the taxable property in the county at the same rate of valuation as it is assessed for state and county purposes, and the County Tax Collector shall collect said tax at the same time and in the same manner as state and county taxes are collected.  The Tax Collector shall have the same authority and the same laws shall apply in the collection of said tax as in the collection of county ad valorem taxes.  He shall, on or before the 10th of each month, make a report to the County Board of School Trustees and to the County Superintendent of Schools showing all moneys collected by him during the last month by said tax.  The officers assessing and collecting said equalization tax shall receive therefor the same compensation as is paid for assessing and collecting school taxes in common school districts.
    
    Sec. 5. TREASURER;  DEPOSITS.  The County Superintendent shall be the Treasurer of the county-wide equalization district and shall keep an accurate record of all moneys received and paid out by such county-wide equalization district.  The county depository shall be the depository for the county-wide equalization district and such depository shall enter into a bond of a like condition and amount as is prescribed by law for depositories of county funds.  The Tax Collector shall on or before the 10th of each month deposit all moneys collected by him during the preceding month by said school equalization tax in the depository to the credit of the county-wide school equalization fund.
    
    Sec. 6. DISTRIBUTION OF MONEY COLLECTED.  The County Board of School Trustees shall distribute the money collected from any taxes levied by said ditrict to the common and independent school districts of the county on the same basis that the state per capita apportionment is distributed among said common and independent school districts.  The County Board of School Trustees shall issue warrants to be signed by the President of said Board, attested by the Secretary thereof, against such equalization fund to the School District Trustees on a per capita basis as is provided herein;  provided, however, that the County Board shall from time to time, as the money is collected, issue warrants to the various school districts in proportion to the amount that each is entitled to receive on such per capita basis as provided herein.
    
    Sec. 7. POWERS AND DUTIES OF TRUSTEES.  This Act shall not have the effect of changing any duties imposed on or powers conferred on the Trustees of any common or independent school district situated in the counties covered by this Act unless and except as expressly provided herein;  it being the intention of this law that respective Boards of Trustees shall continue to administer their lawful duties and powers as now authorized by law, but the equalization tax authorized shall be levied by the County Board of School Trustees, and assessed and collected by the County Tax Assessor and Collector, and distributed to the respective districts by the County Board of School Trustees.
    
    Sec. 8. PARTIAL INVALIDITY;  REPEAL.  In the event any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part of this Act shall be held unconstitutional or void, then and in that event it is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that all other clauses, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and parts of this Act shall have full effect according to their purport and intent.  All laws or parts of laws, both General and Special, in conflict with this Act, are hereby repealed insofar and only insofar as they conflict with the provisions of this Act in its local application.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1947, 50th Leg., p. 617, ch. 331.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740a. SUPERVISION OF SCHOOLS IN COUNTIES OF MORE THAN 1100 SQUARE MILES.
    
    Section 1. COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION.  The general management, supervision, and control of the public free schools of counties with an area of more than eleven hundred (1,100) square miles and a population of not less than forty-two thousand (42,000) nor more than fifty-two thousand (52,000) according to the last preceding Federal Census, shall be vested in a County Board of Education.  The County Board of Education shall be composed of five members to be elected at the regular school trustee election on the first Saturday in April of each year, one of whom shall be elected from each of the Commissioners' precincts and one from the county at large, by the qualified voters of the common school districts and of the independent school districts having five hundred (500) scholastics or less.  The member at large shall serve as president of the Board.  At the meeting following the first election the lengths of the terms of office shall be determined by lot and one elected each year thereafter for a term of five years.  Any vacancy occurring on said Board shall be filled by an election ordered by the County Judge.  Said election shall be governed by the general laws of this State for elections.
    
    Sec. 2. MEETINGS.  Meetings:  The County Board of Education of such counties shall hold such meetings as are now provided by law and the rules generally adopted by deliberative bodies for their government shall be observed.
    
    Sec. 3. PAYMENT.  Payment:  The members of the County Board of Education shall receive $5.00 per day for the time spent in attending meetings, to be paid in the same manner and from the same funds as is now provided by law;  provided that they not be allowed pay for more than 20 days in any one year.
    
    Sec. 4. POWERS AND DUTIES.  Powers and Duties:  The County Board of Education shall appoint, subject to the provisions of this Act, as its executive officer, a County Superintendent of Education, who shall also be the secretary of the County Board of Education, and whose duties shall be the same as are now specified by law and as otherwise defined in this Act.  The County Board of Education shall designate the salary of the County Superintendent, subject to the provisions of this Act.  The County Board of Education shall appoint such assistants, supervisors, and clerical help for the County Superintendent as may be deemed necessary by this body, subject to the provisions of this Act.
    
    Sec. 5. PROFESSIONAL SUPERVISION;  MEETINGS OF TEACHERS.  The County Board of Education may, upon the recommendation of the County Superintendent, provide for the employment of such professional supervision as may be deemed necessary, this to be in lieu of the teachers' institute as now provided by law.  The County Superintendent shall be exempt after the passage of this Act from such requirements as are now provided by law for the holding of teachers' institute;  and shall be empowered to provide for such meetings of the teachers of the county as may be deemed necessary and to require the attendance of all teachers upon such meetings.
    
    Sec. 6. ANNUAL PER CAPITA APPORTIONMENT;  NOMINATION OF PRINCIPALS AND TEACHERS.  In making the annual per capita apportioment to the schools, the County Board of Education shall also make an annual allowance out of the State and county available funds for the salary and expenses of the County Superintendent and such assistants, supervisors, and clerical help as he may have, and such expenses shall be prorated to the schools subject to the supervision of said Board;  provided that in making this allowance for county administration, the per capita assessment against the scholastics of the districts subject to the supervision of the County Board of Education shall not exceed $1.50, provided further that the salary of the County Superintendent for the month of September shall not be paid until he presents a receipt from the State Superintendent of Public Instruction showing that he has made all reports required of him.
    
    The County Superintendent shall nominate the principals and teachers for the various schools of the county, but this nomination shall be subject to confirmation by the District Trustees.  The District Trustee shall have the power to refuse to confirm the nomination of the County Superintendent, and when such confirmation is refused, the County Superintendent shall nominate another teacher for such school, provided however, that not more than three such teachers shall be nominated for any one place under the provisions of this Section.  In the event the District Trustees should refuse to confirm the nomination of the County Superintendent as provided herein, the selection of the principal or teachers shall be by joint action of the District Trustees and the County Superintendent, in which case a majority vote shall prevail.
    
    Sec. 7. PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.  The District Trustee shall make all purchases of equipment and supplies for the various school districts and shall contract for all buildings and improvements and repairs and all other expenditures, but where the consideration involved is more than $50.00 such contracts and purchases shall be approved by the County Superintendent.
    
    Sec. 8. EQUALIZATION FUND.  The County Board of Education shall at its August meeting set aside such county available school funds as may have accrued from investments of the permanent school funds and land leases and shall supplement this with an amount not exceeding 5% of the State available school funds apportioned to the county, to be used as an equalization fund to be distributed by the County Board, under such rules and regulations as may be adopted by the County Board, provided that no district shall participate in this distribution that does not levy a local tax for school purposes of at least 75 cents on each one hundred dollars property valuation of such district.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1927, 40th Leg., 1st C.S., p. 246, ch. 89;  Acts 1939, 46th Leg., Spec.L., p. 693, Sec. 1.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740b. COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION AND SUPERINTENDENT IN CERTAIN COUNTIES, POWERS AND DUTIES.
    
    Section 1. COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION IN COUNTIES OF 15,000 TO 20,000.  The general management, supervision, and control of the public free schools of counties with an area of nine hundred and seventy-seven square miles and a population of not less than 15,000 nor more than 20,000 according to the last preceding Federal census, shall be vested in the County Board of Education composed of seven members elected by the qualified voters of the county and at least one member shall reside in each Commissioners' precinct, and shall be elected for a term of three years.  At the first election on the first Saturday in April, 1930, two shall be elected for one year, two for two years, and three for three years and at the first meeting they shall determine by lot who shall serve for one year, two years and three years.  All vacancies on said Board shall be filled by the remaining members.  The County Board of Education shall be persons of progressive educational attainments, good moral character, and executive ability.  They shall have the powers and duties as now provided by the General Laws of the State governing County Boards in addition to those provided by this Act.  All candidates for County Boards of Education shall file an application with the County Judge requesting their names to be placed on said ballots for the election of County Boards of Education at least 15 days prior to said election.  If no one makes application for name on the ballot, then ten (10) qualified voters of the county may petition the County Judge to place certain names on the ballots provided this is done at least ten (10) days prior to said election.  The County Judge shall be required to furnish all election supplies as now provided under the General Law.
    
    The first members of the County Board of Education after this Act shall become effective shall be as follows:  B.G. Graham, J.F. Parnell, M.K. Withers, R.F. Smith, and J.W. Langley who compose the present Board.  The County Board of Education as named in this Act, before organizing and entering upon their official duties as such, shall appoint two additional members who shall subscribe to the official oath provided by the General Statutes of the State of Texas.  They shall continue in office until the first election provided for in this Act or until their successors are elected or appointed and qualified.
    
    The members of the County Board of Education of the public schools of any county affected by this Act shall receive $5.00 per day for their services not to exceed twelve days per year in complying with the duties imposed upon them by this Act, to be allowed by the Commissioners' Court and paid out of the General Fund of the county, and the expense of making maps and plats provided for by this Act and all other expenses incident to carrying out its provisions shall be similarly allowed and paid.
    
    Sec. 2. REARRANGEMENT AND RESUBDIVISION OF TERRITORY;  ALTERATION.  It shall be the duty of the County Board of Education of the public schools in every county in this State affected by this Act as soon as may be after this Act shall take effect, to rearrange and resubdivide all the territory of their respective counties into such number of convenient school districts as it shall deem advisable and designate them by number.
    
    Such rearrangement and resubdivision shall be accomplished by constituting such existing Independent School Districts as the Board shall deem advisable, together with such territory adjacent to such Independent School Districts as it may deem advisable to add thereto, the new districts into which such county shall be subdivided;  and such existing Independent School Districts, so enlarged shall continue to have and exercise all the powers and duties now provided by Law and shall continue to be governed by existing law and by this Act.
    
    The words, "School District," as herein used, shall refer to Common School Districts or to Independent School Districts, however created.
    
    The County Board of Education shall have the power, from time to time, to alter or amend the rearrangement and the resubdivision of school districts herein provided for, and in amending or altering same may increase or reduce the area of any school district;  create additional school districts;  consolidate two or more adjacent districts;  revise or rearrange the boundaries of any school district;  attach territory thereto or detach territory therefrom, if necessary for the best interest of the school children, provided that the territory of no Independent School District shall be changed without the consent of its Board of Trustees, and provided further that said Board shall not subtract from the territory of any school district in such way as to leave any portion thereof remaining in such district with insufficient taxable wealth to raise revenue sufficient to pay interest and create a sinking fund for outstanding bonds;  and provided that no portion of the territory of the county shall be left in a school district, after such subdivision shall have been made, with insufficient taxable wealth within such district with proper and convenient school facilities, both in the elementary and high school grades.
    
    Sec. 3. PLAN AND MAP.  Before undertaking to create, revise or rearrange the boundaries or to change the territory in any school district, the County Board of Education shall cause a plan and a map to be made showing the boundaries of all districts affected and of the new districts, if any to be created, with the area, taxable wealth and scholastic population of such districts so affected or to be created, and before such action is taken, all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
    
    Sec. 4. ADJUSTMENT OF INDEBTEDNESS AND PROPERTIES ON DIVISION OR CONSOLIDATION.  When the boundaries of any school district having an outstanding bonded indebtedness have been changed or its territory divided or two or more such districts consolidated, it shall be the duty of the County Board of Education to make such an adjustment of such indebtedness and district properties between the districts affected and between the territory divided, detached or added, as may be just and equitable, taking into consideration the value of the school properties and the taxable wealth of the districts affected and the territory so divided, detached or added, as the case may be.  And when said Board has arrived at a satisfactory basis of such an adjustment, it shall have the power to make such orders in relation thereto as shall be conclusive and binding upon the districts and the territory thereby affected.
    
    Sec. 5. REFUNDING BONDS;  ELECTION;  TAX TO PAY BONDS.  To carry into effect orders adjusting bonded indebtedness when changes are made in school districts, the County Board of Education shall have the power to order the trustees of the districts affected, to order an election for the issuing of such refunding bonds as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of such order;  and, in such case it shall be the duty of the district trustees to order such election, cause the same to be held, and if the proposition is carried, to issue the bonds voted.  Such bonds shall be of the same denomination and carry the same interest rate and mature at the same time as the outstanding bonds owing by the district issuing them, and when so issued, shall, if possible be exchanged for the outstanding bonds for which the district issuing them shall still be liable, according to the order adjusting such indebtedness;  and in cases where such an exchange can not be made, the new bonds of the district, to the amount of the old bonds for which it is still liable, and for which no exchange can be made, shall be deposited in the County Treasury to the account of such district.  Thereafter taxes shall be levied and assessed only for the payment of the interest, sinking fund and principal of the new bonds so issued;  and the funds arising from such taxation shall be used to discharge the principal and interest of such new bonds as have been issued and exchanged, and such old bonds as have not been exchanged and the proceeds applied to payment on old bonds not exchanged, the corresponding new bonds in the County Treasury shall be credited with such payment and retired as the old unexchanged bonds are retired.
    
    Sec. 6. PROCEDURE WHERE REFUNDING BONDS ARE VOTED DOWN.  In cases where changes are made in districts having outstanding bonded indebtedness and where the necessary refunding bonds are voted down or where the County Board of Education is otherwise unable to arrange an adjustment or settlement of such bonded indebtedness, it shall be the duty of the trustee to certify the fact and the territories affected by such changes, to the Commissioners' Court and thereupon it shall become the duty of the Commissioners' Court to thereafter annually levy and cause to be assessed and collected from the taxpayers of such districts as existed before the changes were made, and tax necessary to pay the interest, the sinking fund and discharge the principal of such indebtedness as it matures.  And it shall be the duty of each Independent School District so affected, to cause all funds in its hands, whether sinking funds or otherwise, which have been collected on account of such bonded indebtedness, to be transferred to the County Treasurer of the county in which such district is situated and such district shall thereafter cease to levy and collect any tax on account of such bonds;  and it shall be the duty of the County Treasurer to keep the funds so transferred and those arising from taxation, in separate accounts and apply the same only to the discharge of such bonded indebtedness and the interest thereon, as the same matures.
    
    Sec. 7. OTHER METHODS OF SETTLING OUTSTANDING BONDED INDEBTEDNESS.  Nothing in the provisions of this Act shall prevent the County Board of Education from arranging any other method for the adjustment and settlement of outstanding bonded indebtedness of school districts in which changes are made, but they shall have full power and authority to make any legal and equitable adjustment and settlement in such cases that can be affected.
    
    Sec. 8. CONDEMNATION PROCEEDINGS.  Said County Board of Education shall have the power to condemn land for free school purposes and may institute, maintain and prosecute suits for that purpose following the procedure applicable to condemnation of lands by railways or any other method authorized by law.
    
    Sec. 9. TRANSPORTATION.  It shall be the duty of any school district into which the county shall be subdivided under this Act to provide adequate and convenient means of transportation to and from the schools of such school children in any district as it may be reasonably necessary to make such provision for, and to establish such routes for that purpose as the Board of Trustees of such district may deem advisable and to alter and change the same from time to time and the expense of such transportation shall be paid by the district in which such children may reside.
    
    Sec. 10. APPEAL.  In all cases where changes have been made in the territory of existing school districts, any party aggrieved shall have the right to appeal to a District Court of the county in which such school district is located and the decision of such Court on such appeal shall be final;  provided notice of such appeal is given to the County Board of Education within ten (10) days after the passage of any such order making such changes;  and provided further that such appeal to the District Court shall be perfected within thirty (30) days from date of such order.
    
    Sec. 11. COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT.  The County Board of Education shall appoint during the month of May at a regular or called meeting by a majority vote subject to the provisions of this Act, as its executive officer a County Superintendent of Education for a term of not less than three (3) years and not more than five (5) years and whose term shall begin July 1st after the enactment of this Law and shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified.  The County Board of Education shall not appoint any person except the present incumbent before the expiration of said incumbents' term of office as now elected under the General Laws of this State.  They shall not appoint to the office of County Superintendent any person who has not at least completed two years' work of a College or University and who has not had at least four years teaching experience, or who does not hold a High School or permanent certificate and shall be a person of educational attainments and vision, good moral character, and executive ability.
    
    The County Superintendent appointed under the provisions of this Act shall receive a salary of not less than $2,000.00 nor more than $2,400.00 per annum.  The compensation herein provided for shall be paid in equal monthly payments upon the order of the County Board of Education;  provided that the salary for the month of September shall not be paid until the County Superintendent presents a receipt showing that he has made all reports to the State Department of Education required of him;  provided that whenever the General Laws of this State shall provide an annual salary for said County Superintendent in an amount greater than the salary as herein provided, then and only in that event, the General Law as to said salary will and shall control, otherwise the salary as herein fixed shall be in full force and effect.
    
    The County Board of Education shall make provisions for the employment of a competent assistant for the County Superintendent, who shall, in addition to his other duties, act as attendance officer;  and said Board is hereby authorized to fix the salary of such assistant and pay the same out of the same funds from which the salary of the County Superintendent is paid.
    
    It shall be the duty of the County Board of Education during the month of June of each year to make an assessment of $160.00 per annum from each independent School District of said county and shall make an assessment of not less than eighty (80) cents nor more than one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per scholastic from each Common School District for the salary of the County Superintendent, assistant County Superintendent and for making the consolidated census roll of the Common School Districts.  It shall be the further duty of the County Board of Education to apportion the county available fund on a per capita basis as shown by the last scholastic census to all Common and Independent Districts of the county.
    
    Sec. 12. EXPENSES OF COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT.  It shall be the duty of the Commissioners' Court as soon as this Act shall become effective, on a written order of the County Board of Education, to pay from the general fund of the county to the County Superintendent not less than $600.00 nor more than $800.00 per annum in equal monthly payments for stamps, stationery, express, printing and all other expenses incidental and necessary in the administration of his office.  The County Board of Education shall have the authority to fix the amount to be paid for the expenses of the County Superintendent as provided for in this Act and shall notify the Commissioners' Court of the amount to be paid not later than August 1st of each year.
    
    Sec. 13. JOINT MEETINGS.  The County Board of Education shall call an annual joint meeting of the County Board of Education and the Common and Independent District School Trustees at the County Seat or some other convenient place during the month of May of each year, said meeting to be presided over by the chairman of the County Board of Education for the purpose of classifying the schools, and to discuss and make provisions for the location, conduct, maintenance and discipline of schools, and other matters of interest for a constructive school program.  The County Superintendent, as secretary of the County Board of Education, shall be required to keep a complete record of all transactions of this meeting on the Minutes of said County Board of Education.
    
    Sec. 14. PRINCIPALS AND TEACHERS.  The County Board of Education shall appoint, upon the written recommendation of the County Superintendent all principals and teachers in the county except those of independent districts, but this nomination shall be subject to the confirmation by the district trustees.  The district trustees shall have the power to refuse to confirm the nomination of the County Superintendent, and when such confirmation is refused the County Superintendent shall nominate another teacher for such school, provided, however, that not more than two such teachers shall be nominated for any one place under provisions of this Section.  If the two nominations are not accepted, then the nominations shall be made by joint action of the district trustees of the County Board of Education, in which case a majority vote shall prevail.  All applications for principals and teachers must be filed with the County Superintendent as provided for in this Section.
    
    Sec. 15. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES.  The County Superintendent shall make all purchases of equipment and supplies for the various Common School Districts where the consideration involves more than $25.00.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1929, 41st Leg., p. 641, ch. 289.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740c. EXEMPTION OF INDEPENDENT DISTRICTS FROM COUNTY SUPERVISION.  That from and after the passage of this Act all Independent School Districts in this State located in counties having a population of not less than 8,955 and not more than 8,960, according to the United States Census of 1910, shall be exempt from county supervision and from all assessments for county administration and be subject only to the supervising authority of the State Department of Education and the State Board of Education  as prescribed by General Law in the administration of public schools in this State.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1929, 41st Leg., p. 663, ch. 295, Sec. 1.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740d. COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION IN CERTAIN COUNTIES.
    
    Section 1. MEMBERSHIP;  TERM.  The general management, supervision and control of the public free schools of counties with a population of not less than eighty thousand (80,000) and not more than one hundred thirty thousand (130,000) according to the latest Federal Census, shall be vested in a County Board of Education.  The County Board of Education shall be composed of seven (7) members to be elected at the District School Trustee Election on the 1st Saturday in April, one of whom shall be elected by the qualified voters from each Commissioner's Precinct, and three (3) from the county at large, by the qualified voters of the county.  All of said members shall serve for a term of three (3) years;  provided that in those counties not now having seven (7) trustees, the present County Board shall appoint two (2) trustees at large to serve for a period of three (3) years.  The two (2) members who were elected on the 1st Saturday in April, 1930, shall serve until April 30, 1933, or until their successors are elected and qualified.  On the 1st Saturday in April, 1931, at the District School Trustee Election five (5) County School Trustees shall be elected, two (2) from the Commissioner's Precinct whose terms expire in 1931 to serve until April 30, 1932, or until their successors are elected and qualified, and three (3) from the county at large, to serve for a period of three (3) years.  Annually hereafter on the 1st Saturday in April either two (2) trustees or three (3) trustees, shall be elected for a term of three (3) years.
    
    Sec. 2. ORGANIZATION.  The County Board of Education of such counties shall, at their first meeting in May of each year organize by electing one member of the Board as president, and one as vice-president to preside in the absence of the president;  and they shall hold such other meetings as are not provided by law and the rules and methods of procedure generally adopted by deliberative bodies for their government shall be observed.  Five members present at any meeting shall constitute a quorum to do business.
    
    Sec. 3. QUALIFICATION.  The County Board of Trustees shall be composed of persons of good moral character, high ideals of citizenship, and who are interested in public education.  No person connected with the public schools of any district in such county either as an official or as an employee shall be eligible to serve on said County Board of Trustees.
    
    Sec. 4. VACANCIES.  All vacancies arising from death, resignation, or removal from the county shall be filled by the other members of the Board of Education, and such an appointee shall fill out the unexpired term.
    
    Sec. 5. PAYMENT.  The members of the County Board of Education shall receive $5.00 per day for the time spent in attending meetings, to be paid in the same manner and from the same funds as is now provided by law;  provided that they may not be allowed pay for more than 20 days in any one year.
    
    Sec. 6. COUNTY SUPERINTENDENT.  The County Superintendents of the counties now affected by this Bill shall serve the term for which they have been elected.  Ninety days prior to the term of expiration of the County Superintendent, the County Board of Education shall, at a meeting, appoint his successor, who shall serve at the pleasure of said Board, provided no such appointment shall be made unless at an election to be held on the first Saturday in April, 1930, the qualified voters shall so impower and authorize the County Board to choose the County Superintendent;  if otherwise, then the County Superintendent shall continue to be an elective officer as now provided by the General Laws of Texas.  It shall be the duty of the County Judge to give public notice of the submission of the proposition of the employment of the County Superintendent;  and provision shall be made for the submission of the proposition on the official ballot for county school trustees.  The question shall be submitted on the ballot in the following form:
    
    "For the employment of the County Superintendent of schools by the County Board of Trustees";  and
    
    "Against the employment of the County Superintendent of schools by the County Board of Trustees."
    
    The returns of the election on this question shall be made to the County Judge, to be canvassed by the Commissioners' Court, and such returns shall be duly canvassed and the results certified to the County Board of Trustees within thirty days after the date of said election.  The County Superintendent shall be secretary of the County Board.  The County Board of Education shall designate the salary of the County Superintendent of Education, subject to the provisions of this Act, provided the salary shall not be less than $3,600.00 and not more than $4,800.00.  The County Board of Education shall appoint such assistants and clerical help for the County Superintendent as may be deemed necessary, subject to the provisions of this Act.
    
    Sec. 7. SUPERVISION IN LIEU OF TEACHERS' INSTITUTE.  The County Board of Education may, upon the recommendation of the County Superintendent, provide for the employment of such professional supervision as may be deemed necessary, this to be in lieu of the teachers' institute as now provided by law.  The County Superintendent shall be exempt after the passage of this Act from such requirements as are now provided by law for the holding of teachers' institute;  and shall be empowered to provide for such meetings of the teachers of the county as may be deemed necessary and to require the attendance of all teachers upon such meetings.
    
    Sec. 8. SCHOOL APPORTIONMENT.  In making the annual per capita apportionment to the schools, the County Board of Education shall also make an annual allowance out of the State and County Available Funds for the salary and expense of the County Superintendent and such assistants, supervisors and clerical help as he may have, and such expenses shall be pro rated to all of the schools of the county;  provided that in making this allowance for county administration, the per capita assessment against the scholastics of the districts shall not exceed $1.50, provided further that the salary of the County Superintendent for the month of September shall not be paid until he presents a receipt from the State Superintendent of Public Instruction showing that he has made all reports required of him.  The County Superintendent shall nominate the principals and teachers for the various schools of the county under the supervision of the County Boards of Education, but this nomination shall be subject to confirmation by the district trustees.  The district trustees shall have the power and right to refuse to confirm the nomination of the County Superintendent, and when such confirmation is refused, the County Superintendent shall nominate another teacher for such school, provided however, that not more than three nominations of teachers for any one teaching position be made under the provisions of this Section.  In the event the district trustee should refuse to confirm the nomination of the County Superintendent as provided herein, the selection of the principal or teachers shall be by joint action of the district trustees and the County Superintendent in which case a majority vote shall prevail.
    
    Sec. 9. CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES.  The district trustees shall make all purchases of equipment and supplies for the various school districts and shall contract for all buildings and improvements and repairs and all other expenditures, but where the consideration involved is more than $100.00 such contracts and purchases shall be approved by the County Superintendent.  The County Board of Education may, if so authorized in writing by the district trustees, purchase supplies and equipment for all the school districts in wholesale lots, upon requisitions made by the district trustees of the various schools.
    
    Sec. 10. EQUALIZATION FUND.  The County Board of Education shall at its August meeting set aside such County Available School Funds as may have accrued from investments of the County Permanent School Funds and land notes and leases, and shall supplement this with an amount not exceeding 5% of the State Available School Funds apportioned to all the schools of the county, to be used as an equalization fund to be distributed by the County Board, under such rules and regulations as may be adopted by the County Board, provided that no district shall participate in this distribution that does not levy and collect a local tax for school purposes of at least seventy-five cents on each One Hundred Dollars property valuation of such district.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1929, 41st Leg., 2nd C.S., p. 49, ch. 31;  Acts 1931, 42nd Leg., p. 798, ch. 324, Sec. 1.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740f-2. COUNTY UNIT SYSTEM IN COUNTIES OF 5,600 TO 5,750.
    
    Section 1. Any county in this State containing a population of not less than five thousand, six hundred (5,600) nor more than five thousand, seven hundred and fifty (5,750) according to the last preceding Federal Census shall have a county unit system of education to the extent specified in this Act, and for the purpose of levying, assessing, and collecting a school equalization tax, and for such other administrative functions as are herein set forth;  the territory of each of such counties may be created into a county-wide school district in the manner hereinafter provided and may exercise the taxing power as hereinafter provided.  There shall be exercised in and for the entire territory of each of such counties, to the extent in this Act prescribed, the taxing power conferred on school districts by Article 7, Section 3, of the Constitution, but such taxing power shall not be exercised until and unless authorized by a majority of the qualified property taxpaying voters residing therein at an election to be held for that purpose as hereinafter provided.
    
    Sec. 2. On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified voters of any county coming under the provisions of this Act praying for the formation of such county-wide school district, the County Judge shall, within thirty (30) days, order an election to be held throughout the county.  The County Judge shall give notice of the date of such election by publication of the order in some newspaper published in the county for twenty (20) days prior to the date of such election, and all legally qualified voters shall be allowed to vote at said election.  The form of ballot shall be substantially as follows:
    
    "For Equalization District"
    
    "Against Equalization District"
    
    The Commissioners Court shall at its next regular meeting canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of votes cast shall favor the formation of such district, the Court shall declare the result thereof and declare the county-wide school equalization district duly and legally created and the provisions of this Act duly adopted.
    
    Sec. 3. The general management, supervision, and control of the public schools and of the educational interests of each county adopting the provisions of this law shall be vested in the County Board of School Trustees, except as otherwise provided by law, and said Board shall perform such duties as are or may be required of it by existing law and by the provisions of this Act and shall constitute the Board of Trustees for such county-wide district.  Any such county-wide school equalization district formed in the manner hereinabove provided may levy and collect annually on all taxable property in the county an equalization tax not to exceed Twenty (20) Cents on the One Hundred Dollars ($100) valuation of property situated in said county, and the money derived from such tax shall be known as an equalization fund for the support of the public schools of the county, which fund shall be distributed to the school districts of the county as provided herein.
    
    Sec. 4. On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified property taxpaying voters of any county which shall have adopted the provisions of this Act, praying for the authority to levy and collect said tax, the County Judge shall immediately order an election to be held throughout the county, said election to be held not more than thirty (30) days from the date of such order.  The County Judge shall give notice of such election by publication of the order in some newspaper published in the county for twenty (20) days prior to the date of such election.  Only legally qualified property taxpaying voters, who own property in the county and who have duly rendered the same for taxation, shall be allowed to vote in said election.  The form of ballot is substantially as follows:
    
    "For County Tax"
    
    "Against County Tax"
    
    The Commissioners Court shall, at its next regular or special meeting, canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of the votes cast shall favor such tax, the Court shall declare the results and certify same to the County Board of School Trustees and to the County Tax Assessor and Collector, and said Board of County School Trustees shall thereupon be authorized to levy said tax and the County Tax Assessor and Collector shall be authorized to assess and collect same.  No election to revoke said tax shall be ordered until the expiration of three (3) years from the date of the election at which said tax was adopted.
    
    Sec. 5. In the counties adopting the provisions of this law, the County Tax Assessor shall assess all of the taxable property in the county at the same rate of valuation as it is assessed for State and county purposes, and the County Tax Collector shall collect said tax at the same time and in the same manner as other State and county taxes are collected.  The Tax Collector shall deposit the money collected from said tax in a separate fund to be known as the County Equalization Fund for the support of the public schools of the county.  He shall have the same authority, and the same laws shall apply in the collection of said tax as in the collection of county ad valorem taxes.  He shall, on or about the 10th of each month, make a report to the County Board of School Trustees and to the County Superintendent of schools, showing all moneys collected by him during the last month by said tax, and shall each month place such funds in the Equalization Fund.  The County Superintendent shall keep a record, both received and paid out, of all money from said Fund.  The officers assessing and collecting said equalization tax shall receive therefor the same compensation as is paid for assessing and collecting school taxes in common school districts;  however, no part of the moneys realized from said county-wide maintenance tax shall be used to pay any present or future bond issues or interest thereon, and the moneys received and held by independent school districts shall be protected in accordance with the existing depository laws.  And the Tax Collector shall place to the credit of the common school districts in such county such moneys as are apportioned to them, which shall be protected as provided by the existing depository laws.
    
    Sec. 6. The Tax Collector, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall enter into a bond, with two (2) or more good and sufficient sureties, or surety bond, for the protection of said Equalization Fund, said bond to be made payable to the County Board of School Trustees, and to be made in a sum not less than double the amount of money which he may have in his possession of said Fund at any time.  The amount of said bond shall be fixed by the County Board of School Trustees.  The County Board shall require a similar bond of any and all other persons or corporations in whose possession such Funds may be kept.
    
    Sec. 7. The County Board of School Trustees shall distribute the money collected from any taxes levied by said district to the common and independent districts of the county on a per capita basis according to the number of scholastic pupils shown by the last preceding official scholastic census, and county-line districts shall be eligible to receive such per capita apportionment based upon the number of scholastic pupils residing in the county of such equalization district, as shown by the lastest official scholastic census of such district.  The County Board of School Trustees shall issue warrants against such Equalization Fund to the school district trustees on a per capita basis of scholastic pupils in each district;  provided that the County Board may, from time to time, as the money is collected, issue warrants to the various school districts in proportion to the amount that each is entitled to receive on such per capita basis of scholastic pupils in the respective districts.
    
    Sec. 8. The several independent school districts and common school districts in such county shall continue to have authority to levy, assess, and collect the maintenance taxes theretofore authorized by the property taxpayers in said respective districts.  This law shall not affect the right and duty of said respective school districts to levy, assess, and collect taxes within their respective districts for the payment of principal and interest on bonded indebtedness of such districts.  The respective districts shall continue to levy, assess, and collect taxes sufficient to pay principal of, and interest on their bonds.  Provided, however, that nothing in this Act shall prevent the proper authorities from collecting and enforcing for the benefit of the respective districts, any maintenance taxes levied before this law becomes effective.
    
    Sec. 9. This Act shall not have the effect of changing any duties imposed on or powers conferred on the trustees of any common or independent school districts situated in the counties covered by this Act, unless and except as expressly provided herein, it being the intention of this law that said respective Boards of Trustees shall continue to administer their lawful duties and powers as now authorized by law, but the equalization tax authorized shall be levied by the County Board of School Trustees and assessed and collected by the County Tax Assessor and Collector.
    
    Sec. 10. In case any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part of this Act shall be held unconstitutional or void, then, and in that event, it shall not affect any other clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part of this Act.  All laws, or parts of laws, both general and special, in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1937, 45th Leg., p. 315, ch. 163.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740f-3. COUNTY UNIT SYSTEM IN COUNTIES OF 7,500 TO 7,590.
    
    Section 1. Any county in this State containing a population of not less then seven thousand, five hundred (7,500) nor more than seven thousand, five hundred and ninety (7,590) according to the last preceding Federal Census, or any future Federal Census, shall have a county unit system of education to the extent specified in this Act, and for the purpose of levying, assessing, and collecting a school equalization tax, and for such other administrative functions as are herein set forth;  the territory of each of such counties may be created into a county-wide school district in the manner hereinafter provided and may exercise the taxing power as hereinafter provided.  There shall be exercised in and for the entire territory of each of such counties, to the extent in this Act prescribed, the taxing power conferred on school districts, by Article 7, Section 3 of the Constitution, but such taxing power shall not be exercised until and unless authorized by a majority of the qualified property taxpaying voters residing therein at an election to be held for that purpose as hereinafter provided.
    
    Sec. 2. On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified voters of any county coming under the provisions of this Act praying for the formation of such county-wide school district, the County Judge shall, within thirty (30) days, order an election to be held throughout the county.  The County Judge shall give notice of the date of such election by publication of the order in some newspaper published in the county for twenty (20) days prior to the date of such election, and all legally qualified voters shall be allowed to vote at said election.  The form of ballot shall be substantially as follows:
    
    "For Equalization District."
    
    "Against Equalization District."
    
    The Commissioners Court shall at its next regular meeting canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of votes cast shall favor the formation of such district, the Court shall declare the result thereof and declare the county-wide school equalization district duly and legally created and the provisions of this Act duly adopted.
    
    Sec. 3. The general management, supervision, and control of the public schools and of the educational interests of each county adopting the provisions of this law shall be vested in the County Board of School Trustees for such county-wide district.  Any such county-wide school equalization district formed in the manner hereinabove provided may levy and collect annually on all taxable property in the county an equalization tax not to exceed twenty (20) cents on the one hundred dollars valuation of property situated in said county and the money derived from such tax shall be known as an Equalization Fund for the support of the public schools of the county, which Fund shall be distributed to the school districts of the county as provided herein.
    
    Sec. 4. On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified property taxpaying voters of any county which shall have adopted the provisions of this Act, praying for the authority to levy and collect said tax, the County Judge shall immediately order an election to be held throughout the county, said election to be held not more than thirty (30) days from the date of such order.  The County Judge shall give notice of such election by publication of the order in some newspaper published in the county for twenty (20) days prior to the date of such election.  Only legally qualified property taxpaying voters, who own property in the county and who have duly rendered the same for taxation, shall be allowed to vote in said election.  The form of ballot is substantially as follows:
    
    "For County Tax."
    
    "Against County Tax."
    
    The Commissioners Court shall, at its next regular or special meeting, canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of the votes cast shall favor such tax, the Court shall declare the results and certify same to the County Board of School Trustees and the County Tax Assessor and Collector shall be authorized to assess and collect same.  No election to revoke said tax shall be ordered until the expiration of three (3) years from the date of the election at which said tax was adopted.
    
    Sec. 5. In the counties adopting the provisions of this law, the County Tax Assessor shall assess all of the taxable property in the county at the same rate of valuation as it is assessed for State and county purposes, and the County Tax Collector shall collect said tax at the same time and in the same manner as other State and county taxes are collected.  The Tax Collector shall deposit the money collected from said tax in a separate fund to be known as the County Equalization Fund for the support of the public schools of the county.  He shall have the same authority, and the same laws shall apply in the collection of said tax as in the collection of county ad valorem taxes.  He shall, on or about the 10th of each month, make a report to the County Board of School Trustees and to the County Superintendent of Schools, showing all moneys collected by him during the last month by said tax, and shall each month place such funds in the Equalization Fund.  The County Superintendent shall keep a record, both received and paid out, of all moneys from said Fund.  The officers assessing and collecting said equalization tax shall receive therefor the same compensation as is paid for assessing and collecting school taxes in common school districts;  however, no part of the moneys realized from said county-wide maintenance tax shall be used to pay any present or future bond issues or interest thereon, and the moneys received and held by independent school districts shall be protected in accordance with the existing depository laws.  And the Tax Collector shall place to the credit of the common school districts in such county such moneys as are apportioned to them, which shall be protected as provided by the existing depository laws.
    
    Sec. 6. The Tax Collector, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall enter into a bond, with two (2) or more good and sufficient sureties, or surety bond, for the protection of said Equalization Fund, said bond to be made payable to the County Board of School Trustees.  The County Board shall require a similar bond of any and all other persons or corporations in whose possession such funds may be kept.
    
    Sec. 7. The County Board of School Trustees shall distribute the money collected from any taxes levied by said district to the common and independent districts of the county on a per capita basis according to the number of scholastic pupils shown by the last preceding official scholastic census, and county line districts shall be eligible to receive such per capita apportionment based upon the number of scholastic pupils residing in the county of such equalization district, as shown by the latest official scholastic census of such district.  The County Board of School Trustees shall issue warrants against such Equalization Fund to the school district trustees on a per capita basis of scholastic pupils in each district;  provided that the County Board may, from time to time, as the money is collected, issue warrants to the various school districts in proportion to the amount that each is entitled to receive on such per capita basis of scholastic pupils in the respective districts.
    
    Sec. 8. The several independent school districts and common school districts in such county shall continue to have authority to levy, assess, and collect the maintenance taxes theretofore authorized by the property taxpayers in said respective districts.  This law shall not affect the right and duty of said respective school districts to levy, assess, and collect taxes within their respective districts for the payment of principal and interest on bonded indebtedness of such districts.  The respective districts shall continue to levy, assess, and collect taxes sufficient to pay principal of and interest on their bonds.  Provided, however, that nothing in this Act shall prevent the proper authorities from collecting and enforcing, for the benefit of the respective districts, any maintenance taxes levied before this law becomes effective.
    
    Sec. 9. This Act shall not have the effect of changing any duties imposed on or powers conferred on the trustees of any common or independent school districts situated in the counties covered by this Act, unless and except as expressly provided herein, it being the intention of this law that said respective Boards of Trustees shall continue to administer their lawful duties and powers as now authorized by law, but the equalization tax authorized shall be levied by the County Board of School Trustees and assessed and collected by the County Tax Assessor and Collector.
    
    Sec. 10. In case any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part of this Act shall be held unconstitutional or void, then, and in that event, it shall not affect any other clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Act.  All laws or parts of laws, both general and special, in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1941, 47th Leg., p. 121, ch. 95.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740f-4. COUNTY UNIT SYSTEM IN COUNTIES OF 10,339 TO 10,540;  POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONERS' COURT.
    
    Section 1. This Act is applicable to counties with a population of not less than ten thousand, three hundred and thirty-nine (10,339) and not more than ten thousand, five hundred and forty (10,540), according to the latest Federal Census.  Any county coming within the terms of this Act shall have a County Unit System of Education to the extent specified in this Act.  For the purpose of levying, assessing, and collecting a school maintenance tax and for such further administrative functions as are set forth herein, the territory of each of such counties is hereby created into a school district, hereinafter described as the county-wide district, the taxing power to be exercised as hereinafter provided.  There shall be exercised in and for the entire territory of each of such counties, to the extent in this Act prescribed, the taxing power conferred on school districts by Article VII, Section 3 of the Constitution, but such taxing power shall not be exercised until and unless authorized by a majority of the qualified property taxpaying voters residing therein at an election to be held for that purpose as hereinafter provided.  Whenever a petition is presented to the County Judge of any such county, signed by at least one hundred (100) qualified property taxpaying voters residing therein, asking that an election be ordered for the purpose of determining whether or not a maintenance tax shall be levied, assessed, and collected on all taxable property within said county for the maintenance of public schools therein, not exceeding Twenty-five (25) Cents on the one hundred dollars of assessed valuation of taxable property, it shall be the duty of the County Judge, immediately, to order an election to be held within said county to detemine said question.  Notice of said election shall be given by publishing a copy of the election order in a newspaper of general circulation in said county once each week for at least two (2) weeks, the date of the first publication to be not less than twenty (20) days prior to the date fixed for holding said election.  Further notice shall be given by the posting of a copy of said election notice within the boundaries of each independent and each common school district, and one copy of said notice shall be posted at the courthouse door.  Said notice shall be posted at least twenty (20) days prior to the date fixed for said election.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the manner of holding said election shall be controlled by the General Election Laws of the State, and only resident, qualified property taxpaying voters shall be permitted to vote at said election.  Said election shall be held at the usual voting places in the several election precincts of such county.  Said election returns shall be made and delivered to the County Judge and shall be canvassed by the Commissioners Court of such county at its next regular or special meeting following said election.  A majority vote of those voting at said election shall be sufficient to carry said election.  The result of said election shall be recorded in the Minutes of the Commissioners Court and certified by the County Clerk and Ex Officio Clerk of the Commissioners Court to the County Superintendent or Ex Officio Superintendent of said county.
    
    Sec. 2. In event said maintenance tax is adopted at such election, after the result of the election has been certified to the County Superintendent, he shall make a permanent record of such certificate and shall send a certified copy of same to the State Department of Education at Austin, Texas, for its information and guidance.
    
    Sec. 3. As soon as the Commissioners Court of such county has determined the total of the assessed value of taxable property according to the value fixed by the Board of Equalization, which values shall be the same as those fixed for State and county taxation purposes, subject thereafter to ordinary corrections, it shall then perform the following duties:
    
    (a) determine the estimated total receipts from the levying and collecting of said Twenty-five (25) Cents tax on the property in the county-wide district according to such valuation;
    
    (b) to determine the estimated amount of money apportionable to each scholastic on the basis of equal per capita distribution according to the then current census of scholastics for the several districts;
    
    (c) to determine the estimated amount of such money available for each common and independent school district according to such per capita distribution;
    
    (d) to cause the ex officio Clerk of such Court to communicate a copy of the order fixing the estimated amount for each independent school district to the president thereof and for each common school district to the County Superintendent or ex officio County Superintendent of such county.
    
    Sec. 4. It shall be the duty of the Commissioners Court at the time other taxes are levied in the county to levy a tax under this law of Twenty-five (25) Cents on the one hundred dollars valuation in said county for that year.  Such taxes shall be assessed by the Tax Assessor and collected by the Tax Collector as other taxes are assessed and collected.  The money collected from said Twenty-five (25) Cents tax shall be distributed to the various school districts in such county as follows:
    
    All districts in the county shall receive the same amount of money for each scholastic, for the maintenance of schools in such district.  No part of the moneys realized from said county-wide maintenance tax shall be used to pay any present or future bond issues or interest thereon.  The Tax Collector shall, each month, apportion to each district the pro rata part of the taxes collected and dispose of same as hereinafter provided.  The valuations fixed by the County Board of Equalization for State and county taxation purposes shall be used in computing said taxes and in levying and collecting the same.  The budget officer of each school district in said county as provided by Statute, and the trustees of each of said districts, after receiving the notice of the estimate of the Commissioners Court as herein provided for, and the notice of the State apportionment of public school funds to said district, shall proceed to make and approve the budget for their respective districts as provided by Acts 1931, Forty-second Legislature, Regular Session, page 339, Chapter 206.
    
    Sec. 5. As and when said taxes are collected by the Tax Collector of the county, he shall make monthly settlements with the independent school districts situated in such county, said moneys to be received and held by said independent school districts and protected in accordance with the existing depository laws.  And the Tax Collector shall place to the credit of the common school districts in such county such moneys as are apportioned to them, which shall be protected as provided by the existing depository laws.
    
    Sec. 6. The several independent school districts and common school districts in such county shall continue to have authority to levy, assess, and collect the maintenance taxes theretofore authorized by the property taxpayers in said respective districts, subject to the restrictions that after said county-wide maintenance tax election has been carried and while said tax is in full force and operation, said respective independent school districts and common school districts shall not thereafter levy, assess, and collect any special tax for maintenance of schools, except in instances wherein the apportionment made by the Commissioners Court, together with the apportionment made by the State of Texas, produces an amount inadequate to meet the approved budget of such district, and in that event, such tax shall be levied in an amount to meet such deficit, due allowance to be made for delinquencies and for costs of collection.  This law shall not affect the right and duty of said respective school districts to levy, assess, and collect taxes within their respective districts for the payment of principal and interest on bonded indebtedness of such districts.  The respective districts shall continue to levy, assess, and collect taxes sufficient to pay principal of and interest on their bonds.  Provided however, that nothing in this Act shall prevent the proper authorities from collecting and enforcing, for the benefit of the respective districts, any maintenance taxes levied before this law becomes effective.
    
    Sec. 7. Until and unless said county-wide maintenance tax has been authorized at an election held in such county, the duties and powers of the Commissioners Court shall not be considered as having been changed, altered, or enlarged by this Act.
    
    Sec. 8. This Act shall not have the effect of changing any duties imposed on or powers conferred on the trustees of school districts situated in the counties covered by this Act, unless and except as expressly provided herein, it being the intention of this law that said respective Boards of Trustees shall continue to administer their lawful duties and powers except as to the levying, assessing, and collecting of maintenance taxes, and the powers and duties as to levying, assessing, and collecting maintenance taxes shall remain unaffected except as modified as provided herein.
    
    Sec. 9. This Act shall be considered as cumulative of other laws applicable to the counties affected, but in event any provision of this law is inconsistent with any other applicable law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail as to the counties affected.  All laws and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this Act, in so far as they apply to the counties affected, are hereby repealed.
    
    Sec. 10. The Commissioners Court shall have advisory superivision over the schools in the county to the extent that it shall be the duty of the Court to render its advice on all administrative matters submitted by the several Boards of Trustees.
    
    Sec. 11. In event any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Act shall be held to be unconstitutional, such holding shall not affect the other provisions of the Act no so invalidated.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1941, 47th Leg., p. 400, ch. 233.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740f-5. COUNTY UNIT SYSTEM IN COUNTIES OF 27,000 TO 30,000.
    
    Section 1. TAXING POWER.  Any county in this state, having a population of not less than twenty-seven thousand (27,000) and not more than thirty thousand (30,000) according to the last preceding Federal Census and having an assessed valuation for ad valorem tax purposes of not less than Seventy Million ($70,000,000.00) Dollars according to the tax rolls of said county for the preceding year, shall have a county unit system of education to the extent specified in this Act, and for the purpose of levying, assessing and collecting a school equalization tax, and for such other administrative functions as are herein set forth;  the territory of each of such counties may be created into a county-wide school district in the manner hereinafter provided and may exercise the taxing power as hereinafter provided.  There shall be exercised in and for the entire territory of each of such counties, to the extent in this Act prescribed, the taxing power conferred on school districts by Article 7, Section 3, of the constitution, but such taxing power shall not be exercised until and unless authorized by a majority of the qualified property taxpaying voters residing therein at an election to be held for that purpose as hereinafter provided.
    
    Sec. 2. ELECTION ON ADOPTION.  On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified voters of any county coming under the provisions of this Act praying for the formation of such county-wide school district, the County Judge, shall, within thirty (30) days, order an election to be held throughout the county.  The County Judge shall give notice of the date of such election by publication of the order in some newspaper published in the county for twenty (20) days prior to the date of such election, and all legally qualified voters shall be allowed to vote at said election.  The form of ballot shall be substantially as follows:
    
    "For Equalization District";  or
    
    "Against Equalization District".
    
    The Commissioners Court shall at its next regular meeting canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of votes cast shall favor the formation of such district, the court shall declare the result thereof and declare the county-wide school equalization district duly and legally created and the provisions of this Act duly adopted.
    
    Sec. 3. MANAGEMENT;  EQUALIZATION TAX.  The general management, supervision and control of the public schools and of the educational interests of each county adopting the provisions of this law shall be vested in the County Board of School Trustees, except as otherwise provided by law, and said Board shall perform such duties as are or may be required of it by existing law and by the provisions of this Act and shall constitute the Board of Trustees for such county-wide district.  Any such county-wide school equalization district formed in the manner hereinabove provided may levy and collect annually on all taxable property in the county an equalization tax not to exceed Ten (10¢) cents on the One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars valuation of property situated in said county, and the money derived from such tax shall be known as an equalization fund for the support of the public schools of the county, which fund shall be distributed to the school districts of the county as provided herein.
    
    Sec. 4. ELECTION ON TAX.  On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified property taxpaying voters of any county which shall have adopted the provisions of this Act, praying for the authority to levy and collect said tax, the County Judge shall immediately order an election to be held throughout the county, said election to be held not more than thirty (30) days from the date of such order.  The County Judge shall give notice of such election by publication of the order in some newspaper published in the county for twenty (20) days prior to the date of such election.  Only legally qualified property taxpaying voters, who own property in the county and who have duly rendered the same for taxation, shall be allowed to vote in said election.  The form of ballot is substantially as follows:
    
    "For County Tax;"  or
    
    "Against County Tax"
    
    The Commissioners Court shall, at its next regular meeting, canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of the votes cast shall favor such tax, the court shall declare the result and certify same to the County Board of School Trustees and to the County Tax Assessor and Collector, and said Board of County School Trustees shall thereupon be authorized to levy said tax and the County Tax Assessor and Collector shall be authorized to assess and collect same.  No election to revoke said tax shall be ordered until the expiration of three (3) years from the date of the election at which said tax was adopted.
    
    Sec. 5. ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAX.  In the counties adopting the provisions of this law, the County Tax Assessor shall assess all of the taxable property in the county at the same rate of valuation as it is assessed for state and county purposes, and the County Tax Collector shall collect said tax at the same time and in the same manner as other state and county taxes are collected.  The Tax Collector shall deposit the money collected from said tax in a separate fund to be known as the County Equalization Fund for the support of the public schools of the county.  He shall have the same authority, and the same laws shall apply in the collection of said tax as in the collection of county ad valorem taxes.  He shall, on or about the 10th of each month, make a report to the County Board of School Trustees and to the County Superintendent of Schools, showing all moneys collected by him during the last month by said tax, and shall each month place such funds in the equalization fund.  The County Superintendent shall keep a record, both received and paid out, of all money from said fund.  The officers assessing and collecting said equalization tax shall receive therefor the same compensation as is paid for assessing and collecting school taxes in common school districts.
    
    Sec. 6. BOND.  The Tax Collector, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall enter into a bond, with two (2) or more good and sufficient sureties, or surety bond, for the protection of said equalization fund, said bond to be made payable to the County Board of School Trustees, and to be made in a sum not less than double the amount of money which he may have in his possession of said fund at any time.  The amount of said bond shall be fixed by the County Board of School Trustees.  The County Board shall require a similar bond of any and all other persons or corporations in whose possession such funds may be kept.
    
    Sec. 7. DISTRIBUTION OF TAX MONEY.  The County Board of School Trustees shall distribute the money collected from any taxes levied by said District under the provisions of this Act to the common and independent districts of the county according to the financial needs of said school districts.  The County Board of School Trustees shall determine the needs of said respective school districts and allocate said funds to said respective school districts so as to provide a salary of not less than Two Thousand ($2,000.00) Dollars per year to any teacher employed in any school within the county complying with the provisions of this Act.  If the funds received by any such school district from the State Available School Fund, from the rural aid funds provided by the state and from the local taxes received by such school district, together with any funds received from any other source, are insufficient to provide the minimum salary, it shall be the duty of said County School Board to provide from the funds derived by the tax levied under the provisions of this Act sufficient funds to enable such school district to pay said minimum salary.  After said school trustees shall have provided for the said minimum salary for all teachers employed in the public schools of such county, it shall be their duty to allocate and distribute the remaining funds provided by the tax to be levied under the provisions of this Act in such manner as to them shall appear best in assisting those schools that are in most need of said funds.
    
    Sec. 8. TRUSTEES' DUTIES AND POWERS NOT AFFECTED;  LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAX.  This Act shall not have the effect of changing any duties imposed on or powers conferred on the trustees of any common or independent school districts situated in the counties covered by this Act, unless and except as expressly provided herein;  it being the intention of this law that said respective Boards of Trustees shall continue to administer their lawful duties and powers as now authorized by law, but the equalization tax authorized shall be levied by the County Board of School Trustees and assessed and collected by the County Tax Assessor and Collector.
    
    Sec. 9. PARTIAL INVALIDITY;  REPEAL OF CONFLICTING LAWS.  In case any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this Act shall be held unconstitutional or void, then, and in that event, it shall not affect any other clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this Act.  All laws, or parts of laws, both general and special, in conflict with this Act, are hereby repealed.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1947, 50th Leg., p. 800, ch. 399.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740g. COUNTY UNIT SCHOOL SYSTEM IN COUNTIES HAVING LARGE AREAS IN REFORESTATION.
    
    Section 1. TAXING POWER.  Any county in this State wherein the United States Government has acquired or shall hereafter acquire large tracts of land containing one thousand (1,000) acres or more or wherein such lands have been approved by the United States Government for purchase for the purpose of reforestation and whose assessed valuation of property is not less than Forty Million Dollars ($40,000,000), shall have a county unit system of education to the extent specified in this Act, and for the purpose of levying, assessing and collecting a school equalization tax, and for such other administrative functions as are herein set forth;  the territory of each of such counties may be created into a county wide school district in the manner hereinafter provided and may exercise the taxing power as hereinafter provided.  There shall be exercised in and for the entire territory of each of such counties, to the extent in this Act prescribed, the taxing power conferred on school districts by Article 7, Section 3, of the Constitution, but such taxing power shall not be exercised until and unless authorized by a majority of the qualified property taxpaying voters residing therein at an election to be held for that purpose as hereinafter provided.
    
    Sec. 2. PETITION, NOTICE OF ELECTION AND BALLOT.  On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified voters of any county coming under the provisions of this Act praying for the formation of such county wide school district, the County Judge shall, within thirty (30) days, order an election to be held throughout the county.  The County Judge shall give notice of the date of such election by publication of the order in some newspaper published in the county for twenty (20) days prior to the date of such election, and all legally qualified voters shall be allowed to vote at said election.  The form of ballot shall be substantially as follows:
    
    "For Equalization District"
    
    "Against Equalization District"
    
    The Commissioners Court shall at its next regular meeting canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of votes cast shall favor the formation of such district, the Court shall declare the result thereof and declare the county wide school equalization district duly and legally created and the provisions of this Act duly adopted.
    
    Sec. 3. SUPERVISION BY COUNTY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.  The general management, supervision and control of the public schools and of the educational interests of each county adopting the provisions of this law shall be vested in the county board of school trustees, except as otherwise provided by law, and said board shall perform such duties as are or may be required of it by existing law and by the provisions of this Act and shall constitute the board of trustees for such county wide district.  Any such county wide school equalization district formed in the manner hereinabove provided may levy and collect annually on all taxable property in the county an equalization tax not to exceed twenty-five (25) cents on the One Hundred Dollars ($100) valuation of property situated in said county, and the money derived from such tax shall be known as an equalization fund for the support of the public schools of the county, which fund shall be distributed to the school districts of the county as provided herein.
    
    Sec. 4. PETITION AND ELECTION FOR TAX.  On the petition of as many as one hundred (100) legally qualified property taxpaying voters of any county which shall have adopted the provisions of this Act, praying for the authority to levy and collect said tax, the County Judge shall immediately order an election to be held throughout the county, said election to be held not more than thirty (30) days from the date of such order.  The County Judge shall give notice of such election by publication of the order in some newspaper published in the county for twenty (20) days prior to the date of such election.  Only legally qualified property taxpaying voters, who own property in the county and who have duly rendered the same for taxation, shall be allowed to vote in said election.  The form of ballot is substantially as follows:
    
    "For County Tax"
    
    "Against County Tax"
    
    The Commissioners Court shall, at its next regular meeting, canvass the returns of said election, and if a majority of the votes cast shall favor such tax, the Court shall declare the result and certify same to the county board of school trustees and to the county tax assessor and collector, and said board of county school trustees shall thereupon be authorized to levy said tax and the county tax assessor and collector shall be authorized to assess and collect same.  No election to revoke said tax shall be ordered until the expiration of three (3) years from the date of the election at which said tax was adopted.
    
    Sec. 5. ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAX, SEGREGATION AS COUNTY EQUALIZATION FUND.  In the counties adopting the provisions of this law, the county tax assessor shall assess all of the taxable property in the county at the same rate of valuation as it is assessed for State and county purposes, and the county tax collector shall collect said tax at the same time and in the same manner as other State and county taxes are collected.  The tax collector shall deposit the money collected from said tax in a separate fund to be known as the County Equalization Fund for the support of the public schools of the county.  He shall have the same authority, and the same laws shall apply in the collection of said tax as in the collection of county ad valorem taxes.  He shall, on or about the tenth of each month, make a report to the county board of school trustees and to the county superintendent of schools, showing all moneys collected by him during the last month by said tax, and shall each month place such funds in the equalization fund.  The county superintendent shall keep a record, both received and paid out, of all money from said fund.  The officers assessing and collecting said equalization tax shall receive therefor the same compensation as is paid for assessing and collecting school taxes in common school districts.
    
    Sec. 6. BOND OF TAX COLLECTOR.  The tax collector, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall enter into a bond, with two (2) or more good and sufficient sureties, or surety bond, for the protection of said equalization fund, said bond to be made payable to the county board of school trustees, and to be made in a sum not less than double the amount of money which he may have in his possession of said fund at any time.  The amount of said bond shall be fixed by the county board of school trustees.  The county board shall require a similar bond of any and all other persons or corporations in whose possession such funds may be kept.
    
    Sec. 7. DISTRIBUTION OF TAXES COLLECTED.  The county board of school trustees shall distribute the money collected from any taxes levied by said district to the common and independent districts of the county on a per capita basis according to the number of scholastic pupils shown by the last preceding official scholastic census, and county line districts shall be eligible to receive such per capita apportionment based upon the number of scholastic pupils residing in the county of such equalization district, as shown by the latest official scholastic census of such district.  The county board of school trustees shall issue warrants against such equalization fund to the school district trustees on a per capita basis of scholastic pupils in each district;  provided that the county board may, from time to time, as the money is collected, issue warrants to the various school districts in proportion to the amount that each is entitled to receive on such per capita basis of scholastic pupils in the respective districts.
    
    Sec. 8. OPERATION AND EFFECT OF ACT.  This Act shall not have the effect of changing any duties imposed on or powers conferred on the trustees of any common or independent school districts situated in the counties covered by this Act, unless and except as expressly provided herein, it being the intention of this law that said respective boards of trustees shall continue to administer their lawful duties and powers as now authorized by law, but the equalization tax authorized shall be levied by the county board of school trustees and assessed and collected by the county tax assessor and collector.
    
    Sec. 9. PARTIAL INVALIDITY, REPEALS.  In case any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this Act shall be held unconstitutional or void, then, and in that event, it shall not affect any other clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part of this Act.  All laws, or parts of laws, both general and special, in conflict with this Act are hereby repealed.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1935, 44th Leg., p. 284, ch. 103.
    
    
    
    
    
    Art. 2740h. COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS OF BOARD OF COUNTY SCHOOL TRUSTEES IN COUNTIES OF 8,470 TO 8,480 POPULATION.  In all counties having a total population of not more than thirty thousand, nine hundred and twenty-five (30,925) and not less than thirty thousand, nine hundred and fifteen (30,915), according to the last preceding Federal Census, and at the same time in those counties having a scholastic population of not more than eight thousand, four hundred and eighty (8,480) and not less than eight thousand, four hundred and seventy (8,470), according to the latest scholastic census as contained in the Public School Directory of the State Department of Education, the salary of a member of a county board of school trustees shall be Five Dollars ($5) per day, provided that not more than twelve (12) meetings shall be held in any fiscal year for which reimbursement is paid.
    
    
    
    
    Acts 1939, 46th Leg., Spec.L., p. 690, Sec. 1.
    
    
    
    
    				
